Designs for Hope and Change

Most modern designers focus on creating cool products that people want to buy. 

They add beauty and convenience to our lives by designing nice clothes, fancy cars, and other things. 

Sadly, people in developing countries cannot afford all of these things. 

They have to struggle just to meet their basic needs. 

Thankfully, there are some designers who have worked to create products to help them. 

The following designs aim to improve the lives of people in developing countries.


Turning Tin Cans into a Radio

Victor Papanek was a designer who worked for the United Nations and UNESCO. 

He realized that many people in developing countries were illiterate. 

They couldn¡¯t read magazines or newspapers. 

To make matters worse, there was little electricity available where they lived, and they also couldn¡¯t afford batteries for radios. 

They were cut off from the rest of society, unable to hear any news about what was going on in the outside world. 

In 1962, however, Papanek designed a radio made with old tin cans that didn¡¯t require batteries. 

It could be powered by burning wax or cow dung ?things that could be found easily around the village. 

The heat from the fire would rise up and create enough energy for a small earplug speaker. 

Even better, the design was so simple that nearly anyone could make their own for less than nine cents. 

As a result, Papanek¡¯s tin-can radios were used to bring important news and information to poor people in Indonesia and India for many years.


Clean Water in a Rolling Barrel

Clean water is essential for our health. 

However, it is not common in some parts of the world. 

Those who can¡¯t get enough clean water can be exposed to many health risks. 

In 2009, for example, the UN reported that around 1,000 people in Zimbabwe had died due to cholera, a disease caused by drinking unclean water. 

To avoid getting diseases, people in many parts of Africa had to walk long distances every day to get clean water. 

After filling up their buckets with water, they carried them back home on their heads. 

This caused not only pain, but also health problems. 

The Hippo Roller was invented to solve these problems. 

It is made of a large plastic barrel and a long handle. 

The barrel can hold up to 90 kilograms of water, and people just need to roll it back home. 

They can now carry a large amount of clean water with much less effort. 

By making it easier for the poor in Africa to get clean water, the Hippo Roller has saved countless lives.


A Ball Made to Inspire Hope

In many countries, soccer has been one of the most popular sports. 

However, many children in poor countries could not afford the proper equipment. 

They often used an empty can as a ball. 

This hurt their bare feet. 

So a Korean design team created the Dream Ball Project. 

It provides children in disaster zones with special soccer balls made from aid boxes. 

The boxes are delivered to the poor to give them basic supplies. 

Once the box is empty, children can easily turn it into a soccer ball by following the directions printed on the box. 

Children not only have a safe and fun activity, but also get a ball that inspires them with dreams. 

The Dream Ball Project is an example of how a good design can efficiently improve the lives of poor people.


See Better to Learn Better

Eyesight problems cause learning difficulties, as they make it hard for students to see the writing on the board or read textbooks. 

In Mexico, it is estimated that up to 70 % of the students in some schools need glasses. 

However, many poor families could not afford glasses for their children. 

In addition, poor eyesight was considered a handicap in Mexico. 

Therefore, many students resisted wearing glasses. 

To help fight this problem, a design team created special glasses to appeal to young students. 

The glasses are made with a special frame that is divided into two parts. 

Wearers can choose different top and bottom colors for their own look. 

This makes it fun for students to wear the glasses without feeling shameful. 

Besides, they can get a nice pair of glasses for free. 

Thanks to this project, students can now see more clearly, learn better and have more chances for success later in life.

https://www.diffchecker.com/fjREbw49